Distributes points in n dimensional space, within some constraint or according to some function, then attempts to connect them into an m dimensional mesh (eg., a 3-sphere, which has a 3 dimensional surface, or more exotic things like a Klein bottle and its higher dimensional analogs). Upon success, one can then place and maneuver cameras on the surface of the mesh, their vision restricted to said surface.

This program is...difficult to use.  It's also a minefield of unfinished code.  :P  I also haven't really worked on it much in a few years.  I didn't really consider "other people using it" when I started writing it.  Or really at almost any part of writing it.  Gee, let's see...ok, try the following.
1.  Select "4-3 Triangulation"
2.  Click "Clear/Init"
3.  Click "Place Points" twice
4.  Click Bind's "x1000", say, four times.  It takes a bit.
5.  Click "Seed"
6.  Click "Full"
7.  Increase "Max cell thinness" in increments of maybe 10, clicking "Full" after each increase, until there are no more incomplete faces (drawn in red, btw)
8.  Click "Calc Properties"
9.  Click "Finish Prep"
10.  Click "Place Camera"

This should get you a 4 dimensional sphere with a 3 dimensional surface, with a camera bound to the surface.  Most mesh creation involves similar steps.  (Try doing 3-4 Triangulation instead.  It doesn't look as cool, but it's much faster to render, and kindof nifty.)  I've made forays into making more complicated 4D meshes, but I keep running into difficulty with their crystallization, and it's REALLY hard envisioning what's going wrong.

It takes a bit to render.  Making the window bigger will make it take longer.  Increase "Grainy" to decrease render time.  Click control to then use keyboard controls to move the camera.  Keys I remember are as follows:

Space - Rerender
Up/Down - Forward/Backward
Left/Right - Turn left/right
Shift Up/Down - Pitch up/down
Shift Left/Right - Strafe left/right

Also, the stereo 3D is kindof cool.

Also, the other buttons on the camera window may or may not do what they're labeled.  I may have hijacked one to automaticaly move the camera and save pictures of the trip.


Released under the GPL v3.

-Erhannis